Welcome to session 216.
My name is Tim Monroe.
I'm with the QuickTime Engineering Group,
and in a little while I'll bring up
John Cromie from Skylark Associates.
We're going to talk today about
alternative programming environments,
or languages as they seem
to have changed the title,
for QuickTime.
Let me just start off by saying that
in all the digital media sessions we've
heard a whole lot about Moore's Law,
right?
It seems like everyone wants
to talk about Moore's Law.
Well, I'm not even going to mention the
words "Moore's Law" during this talk.
But I do want to talk about something
which is really more important,
and I want to call that Twain's Law.
And that is, to a man with a hammer,
everything looks like a nail.
Or as we might say today, modulo hammers,
it's all nails.
So the truth here is that if you
have a problem you want to solve,
generally you are restricted to
the tools that you know about.
And so sometimes we end up
solving a problem in the wrong
way because we don't really have
acquaintance with the correct tools.
So one of the things I want to
do here today is sort of throw
out a survey of some of the tools
that we can use to do QuickTime.
I'll talk a little bit about how
we can extend some of these tools
to perhaps take advantage of
more than is built into the tool.
And then in a few minutes we're going
to reveal to you for the first time an
exciting new tool for Windows developers.
So let's talk about
traditional development.
So when I talk about alternative,
we do that against the backdrop
of what's the tradition that
we're working in usually.
And probably for the first eight or
nine years of QuickTime's development,
the standard way of doing
application development was using
the C programming language with what
we now consider to be Carbon APIs,
or what we would then call
the Mac User Interface Toolbox
in the Mac operating system.
Now on Windows we can
develop QuickTime programs,
but again the standard programming
paradigm is using C with,
believe it or not, the Mac OS Toolbox and
user interface toolbox.
And we do that with this magical little
thing called the QuickTime Media Layer,
or QTML, which essentially is just a
whole lot of the Mac Toolbox and
a whole lot of the Mac OS taken
over and put on top of Windows.
And where you actually had some choice
in the traditional development model
was in the IDEs that you would use.
So early on people
would possibly use MPW.
About the System 7 timeframe
we would move to Code Warrior,
a very good tool.
On Windows you might
be using Visual Studio.
And then nowadays you could still do the
same sort of development using Xcode.
Well, that's okay, that's great.
But today I want to look
at what's possible apart
from this traditional model.
And I've sort of roughly classified
these into three major groups.
The first group is what's really fun,
and that's what we would call rapid
application development tools.
So we've got Cocoa, we've got some very
good third-party tools,
REALbasic and Runtime Revolution.
On the Windows side we have
Visual Basic and Delphi.
There's this new kid on the block,
AppleScript Studio.
And then there's this thing, SuperCard,
that doesn't seem to want to go away.
So all of these development environments
have some built-in support for QuickTime.
Actually,
there's one of these that actually
has no built-in support for QuickTime.
Anybody know what that is?
Visual Basic is put out by
a company up in Redmond,
and for some reason they seem to
have left out the QuickTime support
in their application.
And I'm sure this is just an oversight.
But enterprising third-party
developers have actually stepped
into this void and developed
what's called an ActiveX control.
So the way you would, in Visual Basic,
use QuickTime is by finding an
appropriate QuickTime ActiveX control,
adding it to your project,
and then going from there.
Now here there's sort of
an embarrassment of riches.
There are in fact three different
ActiveX controls that you could
get right now to do application
development in Visual Basic on Windows.
It turns out that to do
even a basic multiplayer,
a multi-window,
or a multiplayer application
that allows you to do editing
and maybe some extra stuff,
none of those three existing
ActiveX controls gives
you quite what you need.
So it's an embarrassment of riches,
but it's also embarrassingly
bad in that you can't go very
far with any one of those three.
So then we have four that I'll,
what I'll call application frameworks.
So they're not really rad tools,
or maybe some of these are, I don't know.
QuickTime for Java with the Java,
or QuickTime,
Java with QuickTime for Java bindings,
very good story for developing
QuickTime applications.
There's a cross-platform
application framework called Qt,
or QT.
There's one that's apparently not
very well known called WX Widgets.
It used to go by the name WX Widgets,
but now it's called WX Widgets.
It used to be WX Windows,
but for some reason they
had to change the name.
And then there's a good old Power Plant,
provides a good basis for
supporting QuickTime applications.
The last category I want to talk about
is actually quite an interesting one,
and one I've been working with recently,
and that is what we might call scripting.
Scripting in the sense
that I have a text file,
I type in some commands, and then somehow
Those commands get interpreted at runtime
to give me a QuickTime application.
The one that I will look at
in depth is tclTk with an
add-on called QuickTime Tcl.
It's a very interesting
little environment.
We're going to be looking at a mystery
guest that I won't tell you about.
And then I have question marks by Python,
Perl, and Ruby.
And the reason I have
question marks is that,
to my knowledge,
there's no out-of-the-box
solution to use,
for instance,
Perl to develop a QuickTime playback
and editing application.
But once you see what I do
with this mystery guest,
I think you'll be
convinced that you could,
if you wanted to,
use these three other scripting languages
to build a QuickTime application.
So let's take a look here at
the old way of doing things.
So I'm going to look at
what it used to look like.
What I've got here is Code Warrior,
and I've got two project files opened.
One of them is a Windows project file,
and one is a Macintosh.
So I'm going to look at
what it used to look like.
What I've got here is Code Warrior,
and I've got two project files opened.
One of them is a Windows project file,
and one is a Macintosh.
Let me bump this up a little
bit so we can actually read it.
You can see that the files in each of
these two projects are very similar.
There are two – oh, that's cool.
There's one here called WinFramework,
which is, as you might guess,
some basic application support
geared at the Windows application.
On the Mac side,
you can see there's a Mac framework,
which is the same stuff for the Mac side.
There's some common stuff,
which is really where all
the QuickTime support lies.
And then there's this com application,
which is where I would put
any application-specific code.
And in Qt Shell, that's fairly empty,
that file.
So let's look at WinFramework.c.
So here we've got just some
standard C source code.
Let me bump down here a little bit.
One nice thing is we're seeing
Windows data types here:
bool, handle, hwind, cars.
We've got LP stirs here.
So, and let's just look down here.
We've got a window proc,
or this is our win main,
where we set things up.
And if you've ever done
any Windows programming,
you feel right at home with this.
This is just the kind of
stuff that you expect to see.
Let's just go down a little bit more,
and we actually have a window
proc for our frame window.
So this is an MDI application.
And we have a win proc for the
movie Windows inside of there.
So this is a good story right there.
That's the kind of mindset
that Windows developers have.
If we look at the corresponding
file on the Macintosh,
We get pretty much the same picture.
Okay, here's Mac data types.
This is the stuff that
Carbon programmers understand.
If we go down here,
we'll get to installing
some Carbon event handlers.
Somewhere down here
we've got event loops,
that's wonderful.
So again,
if you learned how to program on Mac,
that's just the sort of
stuff that you expect to see.
Now let's look at the common file.
see what we've got in there.
Now as I said,
this is mostly QuickTime specific stuff.
Okay, we've got some platform
specific defines here.
That's okay.
I can handle that.
Down here sort of we've got a
file menu handling that calls
application specific functions here.
That's good.
Again,
some more wrappers for the edit menu.
Now we're getting some
QuickTime functions here.
MC cut is how we're going to handle
the cut command and so forth.
Let's go down a little bit further,
see what we run into.
Fairly generic stuff here.
Here's a nasty guy.
FS make FS spec.
For Windows programmers this
is wrong in so many ways.
They don't want to have
to work with FS specs.
FS spec is a relic of
the Mac operating system.
So the barriers to entry for
this kind of development for
Windows programmers are fairly high.
We're asking them to learn not only
the Windows way of doing things,
but also the Mac way of doing things.
So again, that's a bad story.
So let's go back to slides.
That's also a bad story
for Cocoa developers,
right?
They don't want to have to work
with those Carbon data types.
They'd rather work with
stuff that's good for Cocoa.
Well, if you were at the last session,
the QT kit session,
you saw that we have a very
good story coming out in
Tiger for Cocoa programmers.
We have this new QT kit that insulates
the Cocoa programmer from as much of
that underlying stuff as possible.
Wouldn't it be nice if we could
do the same thing for Windows?
And I want to invite up John to
show you that we're announcing
here exactly that same sort of
thing for Windows developers.
Please welcome John Cromie.
Thank you, Tim.
I must say it gives me a
kind of a perverse pleasure,
if you like,
to be standing up here at the
Apple Developer Conference and
talking about,
of all things, Visual Basic, ActiveX,
and COM.
But, whether we like it or not,
Visual Basic is probably the most
popular programming environment ever.
There are about 8 million developers
out there using Visual Basic,
and with VisualBasic.net and with
C Sharp now using many of the
same ideas from Visual Basic,
that development base is bound
to grow in the coming years.
Now,
Much of the success of Visual Basic has
been based around the component
architecture that underlies
the Visual Basic platform,
and that is called COM,
Component Object Model.
And it's quite a similar
story to QuickTime in a way.
QuickTime was based on a very
successful component architecture
that underlies the platform.
And
If you're a COM developer or
a Visual Basic developer and
attempting to use QuickTime,
as Tim has mentioned,
the choices were rather limited.
And some of us have been trying since
Visual Basic three days to attempt
to use QuickTime in Visual Basic to
develop QuickTime applications in
the COM or Windows environment,
but with limited success.
So I'm delighted to announce today
that Apple is finally addressing
this problem and announcing a brand
new QuickTime COM or ActiveX control
for QuickTime developers.
This control can be used out of
the box in the .NET development
environment and also in
traditional COM development tools.
So we're talking about the leading
RAD development tools here.
We're talking about VB.NET,
we're talking about C#,
we're talking about Delphi.
Those are the three big ones.
But the COM technology underlies
many other development environments
and underlies many other
desktop applications as well.
And because of this
shared COM environment,
the QuickTime ActiveX control can
also bring this QuickTime technology
into those environments as well.
So rather than stand up here just
describing this control in detail,
I'd like to take you through
a short development sequence.
What we're going to do is put together
a very simple movie player and
editor using the new ActiveX control.
Thank you.
Okay, so I'm going to launch VB.net.
Well, in fact,
I've already launched VB.net.
And I'm just going to...
Drag in a sample application.
Okay, so this is the,
anybody who's used visualstudio.net
or VB will recognize this environment.
We've got a form here.
And I've made life easy by already
populating the forum with some menus.
But basically this application
does nothing as is.
So the first thing we have
to do is to put the new
QuickTime com control on the form.
Now, like most Windows controls,
the COM control resides in this toolbox
containing hundreds of controls.
And it's in here under
the General section,
sitting beside a friend.
So let's pop it on the forum.
There we go.
So the first public instance
of the QuickTime column control
I'm going to press F4
and get some properties.
And this just shows the way in
which you can manipulate the
control in the design environment.
So I just want to change its name
and make it slightly simpler.
I'm going to give it a plain name.
No border, and I'm going to set
its position to be 0,
0.
Now, double-click and we go into
the code behind the form.
Now, Visual Basic fills in a lot of this.
When you add the menus,
Visual Basic fills in the prototypes
for the various functions.
So most of this code has
already been written for me,
and I'm just going to start
filling in the actual bits that
depend on the control itself.
So first thing we want to do
is we want to open a movie.
So we go to the
Welcome to the handler that
handles the open menu item.
I've already put in some code
here that gives us a file
dialogue to choose a movie.
So, in a few lines of code,
hopefully less than six lines,
we can create a simple
movie player application.
Welcome to the handler that
handles the open menu item.
I've already put in some code
here that gives us a file
dialogue to choose a movie.
So, in a few lines of code,
hopefully less than six lines,
we can create a simple
movie player application.
.file name.
There we go.
Syntactically checked and all for me.
Now,
I want to implement a few other things,
so let's allow ourselves
to close the movie.
.file name.
There we go.
Syntactically checked and all for me.
Now,
I want to implement a few other things,
so let's allow ourselves
to close the movie.
.file name.
There we go.
Syntactically checked and all for me.
Now,
I want to implement a few other things,
so let's allow ourselves
to close the movie.
Okay, dot.
Oops, dot.
Now, this time instead of
telling the control to play,
I actually want to tell the movie
which is inside the control to play.
So we pick the next
object in the hierarchy.
Okay, dot.
Oops, dot.
Now, this time instead of
telling the control to play,
I actually want to tell the movie
which is inside the control to play.
So we pick the next
object in the hierarchy.
And just to show that we
can do other things as well,
we've got .rewind.
So let's leave it at that for now.
Let's run this application.
Okay, so it's building a binary.
And here we are.
So let's try opening a movie.
And here we've got a movie.
Oops, it's set at the... Okay,
I've rewind it, and I can play it.
Okay,
so very simple QuickTime application
developed from a Visual Basic skeleton
in a matter of minutes.
That's the power of the
new QuickTime comm control.
But obviously we want
to do more than that,
and the control is quite fully featured.
So what I'm going to drag in now
is a slightly more baked version
of this skeleton application.
Most of the code has been filled in now,
but we're going to add a
few little interesting bits.
First of all, we've seen how to tell the
movie to do certain things or
send commands to the movie.
Now we want to see how do we get some
information back out of that movie.
So what I've done is I've set up
a little media inspector form.
And what I'm going to do
is put some code in there.
Here you can see the code here.
I can add properties and I can
add sections to this little form.
And we're just going
to type in some code.
So let's get the duration of the movie,
the width, the height, some metadata,
some user data from the movie.
So qt control 1 dot movie
Dot duration.
Okay.
And to save you and me a lot of time,
I'll just copy in the rest.
Oh, there's one more thing
I'd like to show you.
Notice this one here, track one.
Let's put into this little information
dialogue the data format or the media
format of the first track of the movie.
Okay, so we're starting to drill
down into the movie here.
Let's see how we get this.
So we start off with a control,
Qt control 1, .movie.
Dot, what's inside a movie, tracks.
We want the first track,
and we want its format.
Okay, so without looking up any
documentation virtually,
I can use the autocomplete
or IntelliSense technology to
work out what roughly looks
like something I might want.
So that's getting
information out of the movie.
Now anybody who's developed a
QuickTime application will know that very
soon you need the movie or the control
to tell you what's going on inside.
In other words,
you need to be able to handle
callbacks or notifications.
Now if you're a Visual Basic developer
and you've never come
across C++ or C before,
you don't know what a callback is.
You don't know what a
notification is even.
The only thing you know about are events.
And sure enough, we've added to the
QuickTime control a suite of events.
[Transcript missing]
The container window to resize
itself to fit the movie.
So let's have a look down,
see what events are here.
Remember,
I haven't looked up any documentation.
I'm using this for the first time.
There's a size changed event
that looks kind of reasonable.
And here's the prototype
that VB puts in for me.
So the form I'm in is called me.
And I want to set its client size,
the bit inside it.
And I want to make it
equal to a new size object.
This is all standard VB.
And the size object is
qtctl1.width and qtctl1.height.
There we go.
Notice the way VB immediately
syntactically checks the whole thing for
me and underlines anything that's wrong.
Now, so that's the control telling the
application when it's changed size.
But as a QuickTime developer,
you're probably familiar with
MC action events with the need to
set up a filter proc and to get
information back from the movie.
What I'd like to do is to have this
application know whenever the movie
is playing and when it isn't playing.
In fact,
what I want to do is I want to make the
play item in the movie menu change from
play to stop and stop to play whenever
the movie is playing and stopped.
In other words,
I want to make a context-sensitive menu.
First of all, let's go back up to
the code for the play.
Here we are, and let's modify this.
So let's say if.
[Transcript missing]
If it's greater than zero, zero,
then... If the rate is greater than zero,
we want to make it stop.
So movie.stop, all the things you might
expect are in here.
And play.
Great.
So that will work fine.
That'll stop and play the movie.
But what it won't do is it won't
change the label on the menu from
play to stop and from stop to play.
So that would be a nice touch.
And in order to do that effectively,
what we really want is for the
movie to be able to tell us when
it's playing or when it's stopped.
And this is where we come to the events
that are exposed from within QuickTime.
Now the way this is implemented in
the QuickTime com control is that
all of the objects within the control
have an event listener's collection.
And if you're interested in
an event within the control,
then you register for a particular event.
So what I'm going to do is immediately
after I've opened the movie here,
I'm going to
Type qtctl1.movie.eventlisteners.add.
We want to add a new event listener.
Notice the various options are
popped up immediately for me.
I don't have to look
up any documentation.
I want a high-level event.
[Transcript missing]
So that tells QuickTime,
or tells the control,
to let me know when the
movie rate has changed.
So how do we handle this event
when it comes back to us?
All of these events from within the
movie are all marshalled through
a single Qt event callback or
event handler within Visual Basic.
Here's the prototype for it.
Now rather than typing in code,
I'm just going to copy
this here and paste it in.
Now, because you can get events,
lots of different events that
you might register for here,
you might register for an event
when the volume has changed,
when the time has changed,
that kind of thing.
When a sprite has moved,
lots of kind of things
you can register for.
So obviously we need a case
statement in here so we can do what
we want to do at particular times.
So I have a case here on
the event changed event,
and I've got some code here which
simply looks at the movie rate
and determines whether or not the
menu item should say play or stop.
Okay, so let's leave it at that.
Let's save this and build it.
Hopefully it'll all work.
Open a movie,
let's open a different bird this time.
We've got bee eaters.
Okay, first of all,
immediately we notice that
the application window has
resized to fit the movie.
Now remember that was
one line of very simple,
straightforward code.
Not only that, but we can scale,
and the application window
scales as well to fit the movie.
Okay, let's see if our play button works.
Okay, good.
[Transcript missing]
Notice that it's already changed to stop.
That's because we know that our event
callbacks are actually working here.
So,
what else can you do with this control?
Well, I've got a fully baked
version of this application,
which I'm just about to show you now.
Fullscreen works as a single call.
qtcontrol.movie.fullscreen = true
So I'm just going to launch
finished application here and do
one or two quick things with it.
Let's kill studio and kill
that and open another movie.
Okay, so I've got a movie over here that
I've opened in QuickTime Player,
and I'm going to say File,
New Movie here.
Okay, so I've created an empty new movie.
I'm going to grab a bit of this.
A little bit of this
snowy egret and copy it.
I'm going to go over here and paste it.
What's the command for paste?
qtctrl1.movie.paste.
Very simple.
I've now got a new movie here.
Okay,
I can cut a bit out of it if I like.
Okay, but best of all,
I can go to Export Movie.
And all of the exporters that
are available to QuickTime are
available here to the VB developer.
Let's give it a name.
Okay, so within the code I've popped
up the export settings dialog.
I can go and change those.
And it's basically exporting
the movie at the moment.
Okay, and it's done,
so let's close this movie and
open the one we just exported.
[Transcript missing]
To develop in C# is very, very similar.
In fact, the code is almost identical,
just slightly syntactically different.
Can we have the slides again, please?
Anybody who's developed in QuickTime,
or sorry, in Visual Basic will know that
the object model is something
that you deal with very often.
And in order to expose the
QuickTime API in a way which
made sense to comm developers,
we've imposed an object model,
if you like, on QuickTime.
And you can see on the
right-hand side of the slide here,
that some of the elements
of that object model,
and it's no coincidence that there's
a lot of commonality between this
object model and between the object
model that was being described
earlier as part of the QT kit.
In other words,
the object model of QuickTime transcends
the implementation details of
how you actually use QuickTime,
and that's a really important
thing to understand.
If you understand the
object model as a developer,
then you really,
you can develop with QuickTime in
lots of different environments.
I just want to emphasize as well,
many of you might have turned up your
nose when I mentioned Visual Basic,
and C developers have
a habit of doing that.
Let's not forget that these environments,
particularly C#, Delphi,
and Visual Basic,
can all be used to produce very
professional QuickTime applications.
So those are the big three: Visual Basic,
C#, and VB.NET.
But there are others.
And many development
environments are now comm aware.
There's a few listed here.
I want to draw your attention
to one in particular which I've
been really enjoying using,
and that is the Troll Tech Qt Framework.
It's brilliant for cross-platform
Mac and Windows development,
but it's also very good on
Windows because it has an
excellent com container class.
What I'm going to do is
very quickly show you,
if we just have the
Qt application, which is identical to the
Visual Basic application
that I've just developed.
All the QuickTime implementation
uses the QuickTime com control.
There's nothing fancy going on here.
And,
but I've added a little extra to this
because it was so easy to program.
With a few lines of code,
I can grab a series of interesting faces.
Let's end with a happy face.
Drag them over here.
Oops, this is going to crash, sorry.
Start again.
Should have created a new movie first.
Okay, let's create a new movie.
Okay, and let's grab some
interesting faces again.
So these are images that I'm dropping
on a Qt QuickTime application.
You notice that it's now creating
a movie out of these images.
The code is really, really simple here.
It's maybe four or five lines of code,
and I've created a simple drag and drop,
droplet if you like,
for creating QuickTime movies
from content on your desktop.
And because I can get at the export menu,
I'm going to have
another go at exporting.
I can export these as a DV stream.
Okay, setting is again,
and it's exporting at the moment.
So let's give it a bit of time this time.
Close the movie, open it.
And now we've got a
DV movie created from those.
Using the QuickTime object
model within the control,
I can play with all of the
various export settings.
And as you can see here,
you've got the bones of some
quite powerful production tools.
Back to the slides, please.
So there's a couple of other
development environments which
you shouldn't forget about.
Draw your attention particularly
to Delphi and Toolbook as well.
Lots of developers using QuickTime in
Toolbook on Windows using a comm control.
As I mentioned before,
the QuickTime abstraction is
exactly the same everywhere.
However, because COM underlies not
just developer environments,
but many desktop applications,
then all of a sudden we've got the
ability to use QuickTime in places that
we might never have dreamt of before.
[Transcript missing]
I've got a list of movies
down the side here,
and I can click on a movie.
It opens up within the
middle of my spreadsheet.
And lo and behold,
with a few lines of scripting
code behind this worksheet,
I've been able to populate some
cells in the spreadsheet with various
pertinent details from the movie.
So for example, there's the copyright,
or the full name.
But not only can I read
information from the movie,
why can't I just type "Greeb"
in there for the name?
John for the author.
And click on the Save Movie cell.
Okay, just to show you I'm not doing
anything behind the scenes,
I'm going to go and delete
the contents of these cells.
Click on a different movie,
click back on the same movie again,
and you'll notice that the name and
the author has changed on that movie.
Now I won't waste time by going
into QuickTime Player to actually
show you that that's happened,
but believe me, that is actually changing
the user data in the movie.
Now this is really useful if
you're production oriented.
Have a look at this example.
I've got a folder of movies here.
Now there's only five
movies in this folder,
but there might be 500 movies.
I'm going to read four user
data fields from these movies,
four metadata fields.
My problem is that I want to change
the copyright on all of these.
Let's change the copyright to 2005.
It's a spreadsheet,
so why can't we just do an edit, fill,
down.
Let's
Save the movie data.
So we're opening up each movie
in turn and writing this data
back to it from the spreadsheet.
Let's clear it and get it all back again.
And notice that very quickly and
very easily we've changed the
copyright on a whole folder of movies.
That's Excel.
Many of you probably don't
realize that behind Excel on
Windows is a very powerful
Visual Basic programming environment.
Virtually anything you can do in
Visual Basic you can also do in Excel.
[Transcript missing]
Can we use the
QuickTime control in PowerPoint?
Of course.
I think.
Yep.
So here we've got a movie.
I've added some buttons
to the PowerPoint slide,
and I can play the movie.
That's very simple,
but you can also do more.
Here's a movie which is
essentially a chapter movie.
It's actually a smile movie which
creates a series of chapters.
And as you can see,
it's standard QuickTime chapter access.
But what happens if I want to get at the
chapters using buttons within PowerPoint?
Well, again, a few lines of scripting
code behind the slide,
and we can jump from chapter
to chapter within the movie.
Last slide, a little bit of fun.
Some of you might remember this
interesting wired sprite movie.
This is really to demonstrate
how deep you can get within the
object model within QuickTime.
I've got two buttons down here.
This one turns off the left eyeball,
and this one turns off the right eyeball.
How are we doing this?
QuickQtControl.movie.tracks.sprites.1.
visible=false.
or true.
Okay?
Or we can make them go cross-eyed.
By enlarging each of those sprites.
So essentially, within simple desktop
applications like this,
with the Visual Basic environment
behind them,
we can use the comm control to do
interesting things with QuickTime.
Lastly, I just wanted to come revisit
the Qt framework one more time.
I mentioned that it was very good
for cross-platform development.
And if you choose to use
on the Windows side the new
QuickTime com control and on
the Mac the new high movie view,
Then you can actually create quite
powerful cross-platform applications
which share a lot of the code.
Here's one I've been working on.
This is an application that's
going to ship hopefully shortly.
It's all about birds, believe it or not.
And there we've got a QuickTime movie.
And unfortunately...
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so this uses the Qt framework.
All the code is cross-platform virtually.
Much of the QuickTime API code
is also cross-platform,
and yet we've got applications that
look very similar on two separate
platforms with shared development effort.
That's really all I want to say.
Any questions afterwards about other
frameworks or other common environments,
I'll be happy to take.
And back to you, Tim.
Okay,
so let's switch gears for a little bit.
We've been looking at standard
application development tools
on Windows and also on Mac.
We've seen that there's some really
good high-level solutions coming,
the QuickTime kit for Cocoa developers,
the new ActiveX COM control
for Windows developers.
For Carbon developers,
we also have a new H.I.
Movie View that I haven't
talked about here,
but which you should look at.
Now what I want to do is look at
the sort of scripting languages.
And again, this is pretty cool.
Let me come over here to demo one.
And open -- what I'm going to do
is just show you the text file.
So this is written in
a language called tcl.
[Transcript missing]
Top level is the way you
create a new top level window.
So I'll hit return there,
and lo and behold, instantly I have a new
window on the screen.
So by typing in some commands,
I get a nice GUI element.
So let's--
So did I quit that?
All right, let's launch it again.
Now, I showed you that script of,
actually quite lengthy script of
tcl tk and QuickTime tcl commands.
I'm going to open that with
the source command here.
I'm just going to... and what we notice
is that the console window and the
basic window it gives me have gone away.
I explicitly hid those.
And now I have a menu bar
with commands that look fairly
reasonable for QuickTime movies.
So let's see if I can
open a QuickTime movie.
Okay, here's some MPEG-4s.
And it will play them
just like you'd expect.
I can come in here and cut.
I can come over here and say paste.
Or maybe I like that clip
so much I'll paste it again.
One nice thing about QuickTime tcl
is that I can then come back here,
undo the second paste,
undo the first paste, excuse me,
undo the cut,
so I have unlimited levels of undo.
So that's really pretty cool.
I showed that earlier on
Monday for the CocoaKit,
and you expect that with Cocoa.
You don't necessarily expect that with
just a standard scripting language.
That's QuickTime, that's tcl tk,
and QuickTime tcl.
Let's go back to slides briefly.
Now it's time for our mystery guest.
Okay, and I won't reveal what that is.
Let me motivate that first,
so let me quit here.
Let's open up a terminal window,
and I have some commands
I've already run here.
It turns out that if you, let's try this,
if I ls user bin
[Transcript missing]
Let's see what happens.
Lo and behold,
that Wish application opened
and it did what I wanted.
It hid the default window you get and
it opened a new window called Foo.
So what does this tell me?
It tells me that
I can use the standard input of
that command line version of the
tcl TK interpreter to do commands.
Now I've also got another one here,
let's do three.
"Three is, says echo this command,
that's some tcl script,
that means put string hello world,
pipe that through the tcl tk interpreter,
and let's see what it does,
it echoes hello world.
So that's sort of a roundabout way
of doing the hello world thing,
namely send this string of tcl
commands over to the tcl tk interpreter
and the tcl command is just,
to your standard output,
write this string." string.
So what have we learned?
That command line version of the tclTk
interpreter takes standard input.
It's got a standard output.
Now here lights may be
going on in your head.
You can do some pretty funky stuff here.
Why?
Well, I could write a shell script or a
Perl script or whatever that sent some
standard output to the tclTk interpreter.
And if I was clever,
if I had a bidirectional pipe,
I could get some output back.
So what this shows us is,
If I know some tk,
if I know tk well enough to be able to
do the graphical user interface stuff,
I don't need tcl at all.
I don't need that.
I could write my application in
some other language altogether.
So this is where our
mystery guest comes in.
So what I did is when I had
that realization that I can just
plug in any language I want,
and as long as that script for that
language or that application knows how
to write tk to its standard output,
and read things in from
the standard input,
I'm golden.
So can we go back here?
My mystery guest.
So what I was doing,
I was looking around the Unix system,
and I came across a
small little language,
hasn't been used in years,
and that language is awk.
So I decided I would
write a full-featured
QuickTime application using just awk.
And let me show you that
that actually works.
So I need one more piece of this puzzle.
I need something that takes the
standard output of the tclTK
interpreter and sends it to awk.
And then I need something that
takes the standard output of awk and
sends it to the tclTK interpreter.
So I wrote a little Perl script,
and because this is sort of
some glue between awk and wish,
I called it the awk-to-wish adhesive,
or I like to abbreviate that as awkwa.
So here I've got the awkwa interface
between awk and the TK interpreter,
and I'll just do 12 here again.
So 12 just says let's
run this Perl script.
Doesn't look like anything's happened
because I don't know how to tell Perl
to make the application come forward.
Down here in my doc,
this is an awk script running QuickTime.
Well, there's no QuickTime movies here.
It's just an about box.
Let's see if we can
open a QuickTime movie.
This looks just like it did before
because the graphical user interface
portion of this is identical.
All that has changed is that I've taken a
perfectly reasonable scripting language,
namely tcl,
and replaced it with a perfectly
ridiculous scripting language,
namely awk.
And again, I can play this.
I've got the multi-level undo and redo.
I've got everything I had before.
Okay, that's pretty cool.
[Transcript missing]
I'm kind of slow, so I thought, "Geez,
that's a wonderful
solution I've just got.
I know that QuickTime Tcl
has this command where
I can add frames to a movie,
and it can create a new movie,
and it can write it out to disk.
So I'll use this great technology,
this Aqua technology I've got,
and I'll write some sort of script
that sends the tk commands over to
QuickTime Tcl." And suddenly I realized,
that's not what I want to do at all.
What I want to do is just write a
command line tool that takes as its
parameters the names of the files
I want to use and creates the movie.
And let me just show you that here.
I've got an Xcode project,
but using Xcode is way overkill for this.
I could just do this
all on the command line.
That's wonderful.
So it's real simple.
I've got a main routine here.
It's got some arguments.
One nice thing about this
script is I'm using the latest
and greatest QuickTime APIs.
So I do a little checking on
the number of arguments I get.
If I don't get the right number,
I'll print out some nasty warnings.
I'll call enter movies
to initialize QuickTime.
There's actually a step
missing here that I don't have.
In theory,
QuickTime likes to have a graphics
port available when it's doing stuff.
Even if I'm not actually going
to display any QuickTime movies,
it's generally a good idea to
have a graph port lying around.
So at this point,
I should call open new port.
Is that what it's called?
And have a port lying around.
It turns out I've never
crashed without it,
so let's see what happens.
Let's not bother.
So the first thing I want to do is grab
the first thing on the command line
and do a CFString create with CString.
So you're giving me a
CString on the command line,
and I'm going to get
a CFString from that.
I want a CFString because there's
this wonderful new QuickTime data
reference utility called
QT New Data Reference from URL CFString.
And what that gives me
back in its parameters
"A data reference is a data reference
and the type of a data reference.
Again, a data reference is our standard
way of referring to something on the
disk or something out there on the
Internet or something somewhere."
Once I've got the data reference,
I'm going to use this
new QuickTime storage
API called CreateMovieStorage.
It takes the data ref
and the data ref type,
It takes the type of file I want,
takes some flags, and it gives me back a
data handler and a movie.
So now that I've,
with just a few lines of code,
figured out what the output file should
be called and created in a movie,
I can loop over all the rest
of the command line parameters,
which presumably are URLs to the images.
And I do sort of the same thing.
I get a CFString for the argument.
I get a data reference from it.
I'm going to open the image as a movie,
and I can do that with
Open Movie Storage.
Um, get the movie.
Finally, when you do that,
when you open an image as a movie,
at least on Mac OS X,
the duration of that movie is, I believe,
a fifth of a second.
That would be pretty small for
the slideshow I want to build,
so I'm going to scale the
movie segment of the movie that
I just opened to some predefined
Duration.
Finally, I'm going to insert that segment
that I just scaled up to be the right
size into the movie that I created.
I'm going to do that for every
image on the command line.
Finally,
I'm going to update movie in storage,
which writes out the new movie,
and I'm done.
So here with about, I don't know,
maybe 30 lines of fairly
up-to-date QuickTime APIs,
I have a command line tool that I can
specify a whole bunch of image files to,
and then it will create a movie for me.
All right, so let's go back to slides.
So that was the case study
for command line tools.
So let me just wrap up.
I hope we've shown today that we've got a
whole array of interesting sorts of tools
that you can use to build QuickTime apps,
not only GUI apps,
but also command line apps that will
do useful and interesting things.
Many of these tools have very
standard ways of extending them.
For instance, REALbasic or Revolution you
can write plug-ins for if
there are QuickTime APIs that
they don't support natively.
And I really think that right
now is the best time to be
developing QuickTime software.
We've seen at this conference
really important new tools,
the QuickTime Cocoa Kit,
the ActiveX Control,
and things like this that really
bring us into the 21st century.
So you can contact John or me
at quicktime@quicktime.com.
And let me just refer you to a
couple of sources of information.
Mac Tech Magazine,
starting back in December of 2002,
has had a nice series of
articles about various
QuickTime programming environments.
So virtually everything that
I've mentioned here today,
there will be at some
point in this presentation,
there will be a quick time program.
[Transcript missing]